.nh
.TH peseal 1
.SH NAME
peseal \- Sign and verify PE32+ binaries (Authenticode)

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpeseal\fP [\fIglobal options\fP] \fICOMMAND\fP [\fIargs\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Sign, verify, and inspect PE32+ Authenticode signatures on
EFI binaries — Unified Kernel Images, bootloaders, loaders. Pure Go
under the hood (wraps github.com/foxboron/go-uefi/authenticode);
no objcopy, sbsign, pesign, or ukify dependency at runtime.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.EX
  -c, --config string      Path to config file (default: /etc/peseal.yaml)
      --log-level string   Log verbosity: trace, debug, info, warn, error
.EE

.SH COMMANDS
.SS peseal inspect
Print signature and PE/UKI metadata for files

.PP
Report Authenticode signature status, PE32+ header layout,
section table, and (for UKIs) decoded .cmdline / .uname / .osrel
content per file. Use --json for a structured form suitable for
scripting.

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBpeseal inspect [flags] FILE...\fR

.PP
\fBOptions:\fP

.EX
      --json   Emit machine-readable JSON instead of text
.EE

.SS peseal sign
Sign PE32+ binaries with the configured key and certificate

.PP
Sign each named FILE (or every file matching the configured paths
when no FILE is given) with the configured key + certificate. Idempotent
by default: files already signed by the configured cert are skipped.

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBpeseal sign [flags] [FILE...]\fR

.PP
\fBOptions:\fP

.EX
      --cert string      Path to PEM-encoded X.509 certificate (overrides config)
      --dry-run          Show what would be signed without writing
  -k, --key string       Path to PEM-encoded RSA private key (overrides config)
      --no-skip-signed   Always re-sign, even if the file already carries a valid signature for the configured cert
  -y, --yes              Auto-approve (no-op today; reserved for future confirm UX)
.EE

.SS peseal verify
Verify Authenticode signatures against a trust certificate

.PP
Verify each FILE's Authenticode signature against the supplied
certificate (or the configured cert_path). Exit code is non-zero if any
file fails to verify.

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBpeseal verify [flags] FILE...\fR

.PP
\fBOptions:\fP

.EX
      --cert string   Path to trust certificate (overrides config cert_path)
.EE

.SS peseal version
Print version information

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBpeseal version\fR
