.nh
.TH refind-btrfs-snapshots 1
.SH NAME
refind-btrfs-snapshots \- Generate rEFInd boot entries for btrfs snapshots

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrefind-btrfs-snapshots\fP [\fIglobal options\fP] \fICOMMAND\fP [\fIargs\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate rEFInd boot menu entries for btrfs snapshots with automatic
ESP detection, snapshot discovery, and configuration management.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.EX
      --config string      config file (default is /etc/refind-btrfs-snapshots.yaml)
      --local-time         Display times in local time instead of UTC
      --log-level string   log level (trace, debug, info, warn, error, fatal, panic) (default "info")
.EE

.SH COMMANDS
.SS refind-btrfs-snapshots generate
Generate rEFInd boot entries for btrfs snapshots

.PP
Generate rEFInd boot configuration files for btrfs snapshots.

.PP
Automatically detects snapshots, updates fstab files, and creates boot entries.
Prefers refind_linux.conf updates but can generate include files when needed.

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBrefind-btrfs-snapshots generate [flags]\fR

.PP
\fBOptions:\fP

.EX
      --config-path string   Path to rEFInd main config file
  -n, --count int            Number of snapshots to include (0 = all snapshots)
      --dry-run              Show what would be done without making changes
  -e, --esp-path string      Path to ESP mount point
      --force                Force generation even if booted from snapshot
  -g, --generate-include     Force generation of refind-btrfs-snapshots.conf for inclusion into refind.conf
  -y, --yes                  Automatically approve all changes without prompting
.EE

.SS refind-btrfs-snapshots list
List btrfs volumes and snapshots

.PP
List btrfs volumes and snapshots. Requires a subcommand (volumes or snapshots).

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBrefind-btrfs-snapshots list\fR

.SS refind-btrfs-snapshots list bootsets
List detected boot image sets on the ESP

.PP
Scan the EFI System Partition for boot images and display the detected boot sets.

.PP
Each boot set groups related boot images by kernel name (e.g., "linux", "linux-lts").
A boot set typically contains a kernel, its matching initramfs, an optional fallback
initramfs, and any shared microcode images.

.PP
The command also inspects kernel binaries to extract version strings from their
bzImage headers when possible.

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBrefind-btrfs-snapshots list bootsets [flags]\fR

.PP
\fBOptions:\fP

.EX
      --json          Output in JSON format
      --show-images   Show individual boot images in addition to boot sets
.EE

.SS refind-btrfs-snapshots list snapshots
List all snapshots for detected volumes

.PP
List all snapshots for each detected btrfs volume.

.PP
Shows snapshot path, creation time, and parent volume for each snapshot.

.PP
Size calculation (--show-size) performance:
  • Fast: Uses btrfs quotas if already enabled
  • Slower: Falls back to native file scanning with progress indicator
  • Note: Large snapshots may take time to calculate

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBrefind-btrfs-snapshots list snapshots [flags]\fR

.PP
\fBOptions:\fP

.EX
      --json                  Output in JSON format
      --search-dirs strings   Override snapshot search directories
      --show-size             Show snapshot sizes (slower)
      --show-volume           Show volume column (useful for multi-filesystem setups)
      --volume string         Show snapshots only for specific volume UUID or device
.EE

.SS refind-btrfs-snapshots list volumes
List all btrfs filesystems/volumes

.PP
List all btrfs filesystems/volumes detected on the system.

.PP
Shows device path, mount point, and the best available identifier for each volume.
The IDENTIFIER column shows the preferred identifier value, and TYPE shows what
kind of identifier it is (UUID, PARTUUID, LABEL, PARTLABEL, or DEVICE).

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBrefind-btrfs-snapshots list volumes [flags]\fR

.PP
\fBOptions:\fP

.EX
      --json           Output in JSON format
      --show-all-ids   Show all device identifiers (UUID, PARTUUID, LABEL, etc.)
.EE

.SS refind-btrfs-snapshots status
Show snapshot bootability against detected ESP boot sets

.PP
Show the bootability status of every snapshot against every detected boot set.

.PP
This is the diagnostic command for answering "if my /boot breaks, which of my
snapshots are real fallbacks?" It joins the snapshot inventory (from btrfs) with
the boot image inventory (from the ESP) and renders a compatibility matrix.

.PP
Each row is a snapshot; each kernel column shows whether the snapshot's modules
match that kernel's version (fresh) or not (stale). Snapshots in btrfs-mode
embed their own kernel and are marked n/a — staleness is impossible for them.

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBrefind-btrfs-snapshots status [flags]\fR

.PP
\fBOptions:\fP

.EX
      --json              Output in JSON format
      --unbootable-only   Show only snapshots that are stale or unbootable against all boot sets
.EE

.SS refind-btrfs-snapshots version
Show version information

.PP
Display version information including build details.

.PP
This command shows:
- Application version
- Git commit hash
- Build timestamp
- Go version used for compilation

.PP
\fBUsage:\fP \fBrefind-btrfs-snapshots version\fR

.SH SEE ALSO
bls-btrfs-snapshots(1), kernel-spy(1)
